Q1.  What are components of a computer ?
ans: .CPU
     .RAM
     .ROM
     .Hard disk
     .ALU
     .Monitor
     .Keyboard
Q2.  Which CPU are you using in you laptop / mobile / PC ?
ans: Intel i5
Q3.  What is size of RAM in your PC ?
ans: 12Gb
Q4.  Read Python documentation from
     https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/index.html
ans: done!
Q5.  What are different implementations of Python ? Which implementation we are using ?
ans: We are using Cpython ,there are some other implementations of the Python language too The only implementations that are known to be compatible 
     with a given version of the language are IronPython, Jython and PyPy.
Q6.  Who created python ? in which year ? where ?
ans: Guido van Rossum created Python in 1991 in The Netherlands.
Q7.  What is PVM ?
ans: PVM is Python Virtual Machine.
Q8.  Python is platform independent or not ? Which platforms python can run ?
ans: Python is platform independent , python supports any operating system
     and supports many H/W platforms.
Q9.  Why python is platform independent ? What makes it platform independent ?
ans: Python is a platform-independent language.
     This means that Python code can run on different platforms such as Windows, Linux, and macOS without the need for modification. 
     Python programs are platform independent because they can be run on different platforms using an interpreter built specifically for that platform.
     Python is an interpreted language, and its interpreter is available for many platforms
Q10. WAP to Print "Hello IACSD" and write comment describing author of the program and date created
ans: print("Hello IACSD")
     """
      this code is created by - Vaishnavi and Disha on 18/9/2023
     """
Q11. Find working of various functions (min 7) from math library of python which is provided as standard library. 
     https://docs.python.org/3/library/math.html
     You can also try it yourself.
     Ex. 
     import math
     print(math.factorial(4))
     print(math.sin(90))
ans: math.comb(n, k)
     math.ceil(x)
     math.copysign(x, y)
     math.fabs(x)
     math.factorial(n)
     math.floor(x)
     math.fmod(x, y)
     math.gcd(*integers)
Q12. Open spyder IDE and create a python program (.py file) to print Hello world!. Run the program and check the put on console.
ans: output of the following program :
     print("Hello World!") is
     Hello World!
Q13.WAP using spyder IDE.  Import math library and print the gcd, lcm of two numbers.
ans: import math
     gcd=math.gcd((3,6))
     print(gcd)
     lcm=math.lcm((10,25))
     print(lcm)
Q14. WAP using spyder IDE. Use math library. Print number of options you have, when you are given 5 different characters and you need to select 3 of them without repeatitions. 
     (find permutations)
ans: import math
     math.perm(5,3)
Q15. WAP using spyder IDE. Use math library. Print number of options you have to select 20 students out of 60 without repeatitions. ( Obviously here order doesn't matter, so find combinations) 
ans: import math
     math.comb(60,20)
Q16. WAP using spyder IDE. Use math library. Try to find log of zero. Which error is given ? 
     Also try to find square root of any negative number. What error is give?
ans: 1.import math
       print(math.log(0))
       ValueError                                Traceback (most recent call last)
       Cell In[1], line 2
       1 import math
       ----> 2 print(math.log(0))
       ValueError: math domain error
     2.import math
       print(math.sqrt(-2))   
       ValueError                                Traceback (most recent call last)
       Cell In[2], line 2
       1 import math
       ----> 2 print(math.sqrt(-2))
       ValueError: math domain error
Q17. WAP to create a variable v1 and store any number. Find the square root of that number by using v1 in math.sqrt() function.
ans: import math
     var1=2
     print(math.sqrt(var1))
     output:
     1.4142135623730951
Q18. Why python is considered as slow compared to C, C++ ?
ans: Python is a scripting language while C is a programming language. C/C++ is relatively fast as compared to 
     Python because when you run the Python script, its interpreter will interpret the script line by line and generate output but in C, 
     the compiler will first compile it and generate an output which is optimized with respect to the hardware.
Q19. What are different extensions supported by python?
     What is meaning of .py , .pyc, .pyz, .pyo, .pyd , etc extensions supported by python ?
ans:.py: This is normally the input source code that you've written.
    .pyc: This is the compiled bytecode. If you import a module, python will build a *.pyc file that contains the bytecode 
          to make importing it again later easier (and faster).
    .pyo: This was a file format used before Python 3.5 for *.pyc files that were created with optimizations (-O) flag. (see the note below)
    .pyd: This is basically a windows dll file. http://docs.python.org/faq/windows.html#is-a-pyd-file-the-same-as-a-dll
    .pyz: The terminology “Python Zip Application” will be the formal term used for a zip-format archive that contains
          Python code in a form that can be directly executed by Python (specifically,it must have a __main__.py file 
          in the root directory of the archive). The extension.pyz will be formally associated with such files.
